welcome to this bear awareness course
this course covers information that will
assist you to identify different bear
species and react appropriately should
you encounter a bear in the wild the
information in this course will be
presented in four chapters
chapter one general characteristics of
bears chapter two the difference between
black bears and grizzly bears
chapter 3 Bear Country activities
after four bear confrontations
whether you work or enjoy spending time
in the wilderness learning the
information in this course will help you
to become more knowledgeable about your
surroundings and prepare you to handle a
situation where bears may pose a hazard
to you
supplemental material is available for
this course and can be accessed from
your home page if you have not done so
already print your course materials
throughout this course you will be asked
questions to verify your understanding
of the material presented upon
achievement of the required passing mark
you will be able to download and print
your online certificate of completion
Canada is bear country many of the
places we live camp hike and work in are
in Bear territory while the chances of
meeting a bear are relatively low
largely because of bears disinterest in
people it is important to know how to
avoid recognize and manage bear
encounters
bears are strong agile animals that will
defend themselves they're young and
they're territory if they feel
threatened they are also unpredictable
therefore all bears are dangerous
of the many things you can do to keep
yourself safe from bears the two most
important are never ever feed a bear and
do not come between a mother and her
cubs